# USDConverter

### A USDZ-to-OBJ converter powered by Model I/O

**NOTE:** This tool was developed out of a need to use static USDZ models in Blender. (see below for a matching import addon)\
Now that Blender directly supports importing USD* files, I'm stopping work on this.\
The last update, v1.7, fixes a crash bug. Beyond that, barring some unforeseen changes to either Model I/O or the USD specs, this tool should keep working forever.

## Usage

1. [Download the latest source code archive](https://github.com/SamusAranX/USDConverter/archive/refs/tags/v1.7.zip) and compile the project.
2. Move the `usdconv` binary somewhere into your PATH or into the same directory as the USDZ files you want to convert.
3. Execute it from the terminal like this:

```
usdconv model1.usdz
```

You can also convert multiple files in one go by simply specifying more files:

```
usdconv model1.usdz model2.usdz model3.usdz
```

### Options

```
-v, --version           Show the version number and exit.
--png                   Convert all texture formats to PNG.
--force                 Try to force conversion, even if the input format is unsupported.
--include-garbage       Keep initial files generated by Model I/O.
-h, --help              Show help information.
```

With no options specified, running `usdconv model.usdz` will output these files and directories:

* model.obj
* model.mtl
* model/(a bunch of textures in various formats)

The `--include-garbage` and `--force` options are mainly for debugging:

* Specifying `--include-garbage` will keep the unfiltered files generated by the Model I/O framework around. They usually aren't all that useful as they lack the extended PBR attributes this tool generates.
* `--force` has no practical value outside of debugging. It'll attempt to force input files to load, with no guarantees of success. Rule of thumb is if a file can't be loaded normally, this won't work either.

## Using Blender?

Check out my alternate OBJ importer with support for the additional PBR MTL directives added by this tool: [io_scene_obj_modelio](https://github.com/SamusAranX/io_scene_obj_modelio)